# Describe Azure Resource Manager (ARM) and ARM templates

Azure Resource Manager (ARM) is the deployment and management service that provides a management layer that enables the creation, updating, and deletion of resources in Azure.

By using ARM templates, the desired resources are declared in JSON format. The deployment code is verified before any code is run. This ensures that the resources will be created and connected correctly. 

### Benefits of using ARM templates

* _Declarative syntax_: It means the desired resources are declared so there is no need to write the actual programming commands and sequence to deploy the resources.
* Repeatable results: The same ARM template can be used to deploy multiple dev/test environments, knowing that all the environments are the same.
* Orchestration: Azure Resource Manager orchestrates the deployment of interdependent resources, so they're created in the correct order and, when possible, in parallel.
* Modular files: Templates can be created as reusable components and then linked together at deployment time. It is possible to nest template invoking.
* Extensibility: With Deployment scripts, PowerShell or Bash scripts can be added to templates. A script can be included in the template or stored in an external source and referenced in the template. 

<< Can we inherit/extend templates? >>

### Benefits of using Bicep

Similar to ARM templates, Bicep provides repeatable results, modular files and orchestration. On top of that:
* Simple syntax: When compared to the equivalent JSON template, Bicep files are more concise and easier to read.
* Support for all resource types and API versions: Bicep immediately supports all preview and GA versions for Azure services.




References:

* Microsoft Learn: [Describe Azure Resource Manager and Azure ARM templates](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-features-tools-manage-deploy-azure-resources/4-describe-azure-resource-manager-azure-arm-templates)
